Some previous considerations before running these scripts:

1. All scripts can be run in the specified order excepting 01 and 07 because of the large size of the needed files (preprocessing of environmental variables and PV databases). Data generated in script 01 is located under spatial_data/env_asciis and spatial_data/env_asciis_fut, whereas data from script 07 are spatial_data/solar_energy/solar_continuous.asc and spatial_data/solar_energy/solar_binary.asc files.
2. Script 02 must be run to generate some heavy CSV files that contains the environmental information used to predict over all territory in scripts 04/05.
3. Parallel loops run in script 03 are quite resource consuming but can be skipped since the generated performance metrics are already contained in the 'results' folder (/hyperparameters_iberica/ortega.csv).
4. Scripts 04 and 05 can also take a while to execute due to the selected cross validation method (leave-one-out), but not all results could be uploaded to this repository. Metrics, variable importances and PDPs are stored in the results folder as metrics_iberica/ortega.csv, iberica/ortega_varimp.jpg or iberica/ortega_accu.csv, and pdps_iberica/ortega.jpg, respectively. Average projection values per cell are stored in the same folder in ASCII format as iberica/ortega_preds.asc (present), iberica/ortega_ssp126_preds.asc (sustainable scenario), and iberica/ortega_ssp585_preds.asc (fossil-fueled scenario). All the intermediate files can be generated running the whole script.
5. To compare up-to-date PRETOR data with out generated PV database it is necessary to manually download the XLSX file for each Autonomous Community and convert to CSV, those files can be bind using the provided code in script 08 - line 29. To avoid this tedious task, a XLSX file is available under spatial_data/solar_energy/PRETOR/energy_all_provinces-19022024.xlsx (script 08 - line 34) which date corresponds to the data we used to construct our database. To visually inspect correlation with more updated data, you can also check spatial_data/solar_energy/PRETOR/nuts_with_mw_25092024.shp.
6. Scripts 09 and 10 generate the final CSV and plots of conflict and No-Go areas, respectively, and thus the main results of this research.
7. Script 11 generates several visual outputs needed for better understanding methods and results.
